
------------------------
pw.alat.job : compute total energy and magnetization versus the lattice parameter for Fe.bcc.FM (pw.x)

After running pw.x for several lattice parameters (the output files are stored in a single file by using the double redirection >> instead of >). Then a simple bash command (grep+awk) is searching for the total energy and total magnetization of the system that are stored in Fe.bcc.FM.etot_vs_lattice and Fe.bcc.FM.mag_vs_lattice.

Using xmgrace plot E(d) and M(d). Try to play with various input parameters: number of K-points and smearing etc...
and see of E(d) and M(d) are affected.

-----------------------------
pw.band.job : compute the spin-polarized band structure of Fe.bcc.FM (pw.x + bands.x)

The band structure is performed in three steps: a first scf pw.x calculation and then an nscf calculation for a given K-path in the Brillouin zone. There are differents ways of entering the K-Path. Either explicitely or by the option K_POINTS (tpiba_b) that allows you to draw lines between extremal points. This is the option that we have used.

Finally bands.x is a post-processing tool that generates the band-structure (kx,ky,kz E(kx,ky,kz)) and can do all kind of symmetry analysis found in the output files for up and down spins Fe.bcc.bands.up.out and Fe.bcc.FMbands.dn.out

The simple code make_bands.x is just transforming the kx,ky,kz E(kx,ky,kz) file into a sk,E(kx,ky,kz) file where sk measure the length of the path. The files Fe.bcc.bands.up.dat and Fe.bcc.bands.dn.dat are directly readable by xmgrace.

Plot the band structure for up and down spin. Evaluate the Stoner parameter.

-----------------------------------
pw.dos.job  : compute the spin-polarized density of states of Fe.bcc.FM(pw.x + projwfc.x)

The DOS is performed in three steps: a first scf pw.x calculation and a subsequent nscf calculation with a larger number of K-point to have a smoother DOS(E) curve.

projwfx.x is a post-processing tool that project the Kohn Sham wave functions onto the pseudo-atomic wave functions with a lowdin procedure.

A general output file (Fe.bcc.FM.projwfc.out) is generated with a summary of various results.
In particular at the end of the file you will get the projected charges and magnetic moments.

Compare the atomic-projected magnetization (output of projwfc.x) and the magnetization integrated in a sphere (output of pw.x (5.1 version))

Apart from the general output a large number of files containing the projected DOS come out of projwfc.x (number of atoms x number of orbitals per atom).

Since there is only one atom in the unit-cell you get only 3 files for s,p and d orbitals.
The format of the output file is basically of the form 
E DOSup(E) DOSdw(E)  PDOSup(E) PDOSdw(E)

with xmgrace plot the two curves DOSup(E) DOSdw(E) for d bands.
 What is the band spillting? Compare the band width for up and down spins. What do you notice? Do you have a "waving hand" explanation?


----------------------------
pw.fsm.job  : compute fixed spin moment calculation at various lattice parameters of Fe.fcc.FM (pw.x)

The structure considered is not Fe.bcc but Fe.fcc which has a more complex magetic behavior. In particular two magnetic solution (Low spin and Hihg Spin) are coexisting in a range of lattice parameters.

pw.fsm.job is running a series of pw.x scf calculations with the option tot_magnetization=M that fixes the total magnetization to a given value. 

The bash script is then extracting the curve E(M) that is stored in Fe.fcc.FM.etot_vs_mag
Plot E(M) at various lattice parameters.
What do you notice for lattice parameters around 3.55Angstroms?

